[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If someone had
cancer, if I had cancer,
if a family member had cancer,
the first thing that I would
recommend that they do is
get on the Gerson program,
which is basically a
glass of fresh, raw,
organic vegetable
juice about every hour,
around eight to 15 glasses
of vegetable juice a day.
Very high in antioxidants,
this is a liver cleansing,
body cleansing
detoxification program.
In addition to that, it's very
high in vitamins, and minerals,
and nutrients.
Things we don't even know
are in these good vegetables.
But just to take an
example, carrots,
and not only orange
vegetables, but also
green vegetables are
high in the carotenes.
Tomatoes are high in lycopene.
These are cancer fighters.
Broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower,
kale, the cruciform vegetables
are very high in sulforaphane
and other chemicals,
which actually make
cancer cells want to die.
So when people
consume these juices,
they are doing
something very positive
to strengthen their
body and to kill cancer.
Cancer patients should
avoid salt. Again,
this is Dr. Max Gerson's view,
that the cancer cells love
salt. Vegetables and
plant-based foods
are very high in
potassium, processed foods
salt, end of story.
As soon as we eat right and
avoid a lot of processed foods,
we immediately
make it more likely
that you're going to live.
Intravenous vitamin
C, as developed
by Dr. Riordan and
his colleagues,
of 50,000 to 100,000 milligrams
of vitamin C every other day
for two weeks, followed by
maintained oral doses of 50,000
to 100,000 milligrams
orally in divided doses,
to bowel tolerance.
And bowel tolerance is
exactly what you think it is.
You take as much
as you can hold,
but not so much as gives
you too loose bowels.
Vitamin C builds
the immune system.
It strengthens
good cells, builds
collagen between the cells.
It's an antitoxin.
And it also improves
mood and appetite.
Vitamin C is
inexpensive and safe.
Vegetable juices are not
particularly inexpensive,
but they're a whole
lot cheaper than chemo.
In addition to that very
high doses of selenium
should be taken by
a cancer patient.
And it's generally assumed
that selenium is very toxic.
It is toxic relative
to the amount you need.
Selenium is a trace mineral.
If you take bottles and
bottles of selenium,
you can have toxicity.
But there are doctors
that are giving
1,000 or 2,000 micrograms
of selenium a day.
Certainly, 500 to 800
micrograms of selenium a day
for a cancer patient
is a good idea.
There is a direct correlation
between populations that
live in parts of the globe.
Where selenium levels
in the soil are low,
the cancer rates are high.
Where selenium content
of soils is high,
cancer rates are lower.
So this is very
simple, simple to do.
To get selenium, people
can take a supplement.
That they can consume
Brewer's yeast.
And there are other
sources that they can use.
In addition to that--
well, that would be a good
start for almost anyone.
I had a client who
was a dry cleaner.
He owned a chain, in fact, of
dry cleaning establishments.
And he had cancer of the liver.
Tragically, this is
a very clear example
of how industrial chemicals,
environmental chemicals,
can cause cancer.
He came to see me.
And he wondered if
anything could be done.
He was told that there
was no hope for him,
that they could not use surgery.
I mean they can't
take your liver out.
They could not treat
it with radiation,
could not treat it with chemo.
And a transplant I
guess involved time.
You know how long it can
take I guess to provide that.
So I said to him,
there is no downside
to trying the Gerson therapy.
I mean the vegetable
juices can't kill you.
There's really no way you can
hurt yourself with produce.
So why not get going on
that and see how you feel?
And start taking your
vitamins and see how you feel?
The upshot was he did a modified
version of the Gerson program.
He didn't even do half of it.
But he did drink a lot
of vegetable juices.
And he did take a
lot of vitamins.
And he and his family started
going on world cruises,
and tours, and traveling.
And he did this for years.
He was supposed to be dead
in three to six months.
But for years, he and his
family kept traveling.
And for him, every
week was a gift.
So they just went,
and went, and went.
And he took his juice
with him and all.
And he lived much, much
longer than anyone expected.
And no one even
knew he had cancer.
And then eventually he died.
So he had longer life and
better quality of life.
We want cure.
Cure is best.
But there's something to be
said for longer life and better
quality of life.
And I'm very sure--
and I've seen this
for three decades--
that using vitamin supplements,
high doses in nutrition,
using vegetable juices,
these very prosaic,
unromantic therapies, very
simple, very safe, almost
old-fashioned, I have never seen
them not help a cancer patient.
Everyone that I've worked
with has said to me,
and their doctors,
their oncologists,
have also said that they are the
healthiest sick people they've
ever seen.
[LAUGHTER]
And they live longer.
And they feel better.
So this is where I would
focus the attention.
I had another client who was
a rather famous sports coach.
And it was almost
exactly the same.
He had cancer.
And there was no hope.
And they told him
there was no hope.
he was going to die.
And they told him it would be
a matter of less than a year.
So he wondered, like any
sensible person would,
have I missed something?
And I said, well, did they
tell you about vegetable juices
and vitamins?
And he said no, but
I'm open to anything.
He was not in any
way going to lose
this game if he could help it.
So I suggested to him that he
drank lots of vegetable juices,
and eat a really good
diet, and lots of fiber,
and take large
quantities of vitamins,
as Linus Pauling,
and Abraham Hoffer,
and others have indicated.
I'm not making this stuff up.
I am not smart enough
to make this up.
But I am just
barely smart enough
to know that these
doctors, these clinicians,
these researchers, can't
all be a bunch of dummies.
They can't all be wrong.
So we distill this down.
And the bottom line is,
take lots of vitamins
and eat a good diet.
There is no downside to that.
So he did.
And he lived much, much
longer than anyone thought.
And nobody knew he was sick.
In fact, I was at
a grocery store
one day, talking to the manager.
And the manager, who didn't
know that this sports
coach had been my
client, said to me
did you hear so-and-so died?
And I said, well, no, I hadn't.
And he identified him.
I realized that was the man.
And he said, well,
nobody knew he was sick.
So that's quality
of life for you,
when no one knows that the
cancer patient has cancer.
And they live longer.
And they're able to enjoy
more months and more years.
What's an extra few years worth?
And this is actually just
moderate diet revision.
People that do more, that take
higher doses of vitamins, that
use the Gerson therapy
in its fullness,
have even better results.
[MUSIC PLAYING]